The last operators we'll overload
in this section are the stream
insertion and extraction operators.
This will allow us to insert
and extract our mystring objects
to and from streams exactly
as we've been doing with all
the other built-in types.
You can see in this slide what the
code would look like if we could
simply insert our own user-defined
objects into an output stream.
This makes our classes feel and
behave more like a built-in c++ type.
Of course, we can also overload the
stream extraction operator so that
we can read data from a stream and
assign them to our own objects.
Here you can see that we're
reading data into Larry and Hero.
In this example and the
one on the previous slide,
we're using cout and cin.
But we can use other streams
as well as well as redirect cin
and cout to files and so forth.
Before we start, let's see why
it really doesn't make sense to
implement the insertion and extraction
operators as member methods.
Remember, when we overload an
operator as a member method, the
left-hand side object must be an
object of the class we're overloading.
This means that we would have
to write Larry on the left-hand
side of the output statement.
While this will work, it would
be very strange for c++ plus
programmers to use in this manner
since it's not the way we use
these operators with other values.
The same is true for
the extraction operator.
So we're going to overload these
operators as non-member functions.
Let's overload the stream
insertion operator first.
You can see that this is a non-member
function named operator insertion
operator that has two arguments.
The first argument is an output
stream object by reference.
This is typed as std ostream.
The second parameter is a reference
to the mystring object whose data we
want to insert in the output stream.
Notice that the reference is constant.
Also notice that the function
returns an output stream reference.
This is important because
we want to be able to chain
insertions as we normally do.
It's important that we use
ostream references, and
we don't copy the stream.
Then comes the easy part, put whatever
data you like in whatever format you
like on the output stream as usual.
If this function has been declared
as a friend function in the mystream
class, then you have access to
all the private data members.
Otherwise, you have to use
the public getters to get
the information you need.
And finally, the last step is to
return the output stream reference.
That's it.
As you can see it's very
simple and very useful too.
Now let's see how we can overload
the stream extraction operator.
Let's start by looking at
the function signature.
The name of the function is
operator, extraction operator.
The function has two parameters.
The first is a reference to an
input stream whose type is istream.
And the second is a reference to the
object we want to extract data into.
Notice that since we're going
to modify this object, we
don't want it to be a const.
So depending on the data we
want to read, we can get the
data from the input stream
and either store it locally or
store it directly in the object.
In this case, we allocate a
large array of characters that
will hold the data we want to
construct a mystring object.
Then we simply create a temporary
mystring object and assign it back
to the object that was passed in.
This assumes we have copied or moved
overloaded assignment operators,
and they're implemented correctly
since we have a raw pointer.
Finally, we return the
istream reference so that
we can change assign.
We can do all sorts of error
checking and setting and getting
the state of the input stream so
we have control of the data we're
extracting as well as not overrunning
the size of the buffer we created.
Now let's head over to the
IDE and implement these two
operators in the mystring class.
Okay, so I'm back in the IDE.
I'm in the section 14 workspace in the
MyString-insertion-extraction project.
And what I've got here is I've
got the my string class again.
And I've gotten rid of all
the operators that we've
overloaded previously just so
it's a bare bones class again.
And the reason I did that's just to
make this a little bit more readable.
And what we want to do here is
overload the insertion and extraction
operator, so we can use this these
objects with streams really easily.
So here's a sample main
that's going to test this.
And you can see here I'm creating
Larry and Moe as my strings and
Curly is an empty string right now.
And I'm outputting enter the
third stooge's first name.
I'm reading from standard n,
in this case, cin into Curly.
So we're overloading the
out operator right there to
work with mystring object.
Then I'm displaying the three
stooges are Larry Moe and Curly.
Again, we're using the
insertion operator here that
we're going to overload.
And then we're going to grab
all three of the stooges names.
So we say enter the three stooges
names separated by a space, and
we'll type in whatever we like.
They'll be stored into
Larry Moe and Curly.
And then we'll display them out again.
Okay, so pretty simple.
And you can see this this
main driver here looks nice.
Now we don't have all those dot
display methods that we had before.
Cool, so let's go to
mystring header file.
And let's get started here.
First thing we want to do
is I'm going to implement
these as friend functions.
So the class is going to
declare them as friends.
So why don't we do that first.
And what we can do here is just simply
say friend and provide the prototype.
So we've got we're returning
a std ostream reference.
We'll do the insertion operator first.
So we've got a reference.
The operator we're overloading
is the insertion operator.
And it's a binary operator.
So we've got two parameters here.
The first one is a std ostream.
And we can call this anything we like.
We can call it os or out, typically
those are the names that are used.
And we've got a mystring, a
const my string reference.
And we'll just call
that right-hand side.
We'll stick to that naming convention.
So that takes care of that prototype.
And now we'll do the extraction
operator, so same idea friend.
In this case, we're returning an
input stream by reference again.
And the operator is operator.
And we'll be doing the
extraction operator.
And again, we've got two
parameters the first one is
the input stream by reference,
and we'll just call that in.
And we've got a my string
object also by reference
called it right-hand side.
Notice how this one is not const
because I do want to modify
that object based on what I'm
reading in from the input stream.
Okay, so that's it.
Those are our two function prototypes.
And now what we can do is we
can go to the implementation
file or mystring cpp file, and
we'll actually write these.
I'm going to put them all the
way down at the bottom here.
That way I've got a
lot of room to work.
So let's say that this is the
overloaded insertion operator.
Let's do that one first.
All right, so same type of
function prototype, right.
Instead, ostream reference,
the operator we're overloading
is the insertion operator.
And we've got the same two
parameters that we had before.
We've got an ostream reference.
And we called it os, I believe.
Yes, we did and a const mystring
class by reference right-hand side.
There we go.
Okay, so now this is probably one of
the simplest methods to implement.
All we're doing is
we're putting on os.
Remember, this is a friend.
So we can simply say
right-hand sides str.
That's it.
If this wasn't a friend, we
could use the get str method.
And then we're going to
return that output stream.
That's it. Pretty straightforward.
Now let's overload our
extraction operator.
And we'll do the prototype again here.
So it's a stood istream reference.
The operator we're overloading is
the extraction operator, and we
also have two parameters, right.
The first one is a
std istream reference.
And we'll just call that in.
And we've got the mystring ref
right-hand side, again, this one
can't be const because we're going
to read into it or change it,
that's it, so now we're going to
get a string from the input stream.
We need to store that somewhere.
So let's create a pretty
big size buffer here.
And we'll do this
dynamically on the heap.
We'll just store a 1000 characters.
That should give us plenty of room.
We could certainly do this
in different ways so that we
don't overrun this buffer.
But let's just do it like this because
it's a simple example to understand.
Now we get whatever's in the input
stream and we store it in buffer.
Right now we've got the buffer, it's
got the data we have -- we want.
And what we want to do is we want to
update this right-hand side objects
string based on this data, right.
So there's a lot of ways to do this.
One of the simplest ways to do it
is just to say RHS equals mystring
and initialize it with buff.
Okay, now depending on whether
you've got copy assignment or move
assignment, that's what's going
to happen here, we've got both.
So this is going to use
move assignment which is
super-efficient we're just
going to steal that pointer.
When we're done, we make sure
that we delete this temporary
storage that we created in buff.
And we return the input stream.
Remember, this is going
to return it by reference.
And that's it.
We should be done.
Let's run this and see
if we have any typos.
And we do.
I spelled operator incorrectly,
I believe, I sure did.
I'll fix that real quick.
Let's see if there's any
other errors down here.
I think they're all
related to that same error.
So let's run this.
And here we go.
Enter the third stooge's first name.
Well, the third stooge is Curly.
Notice we use the move assignment,
which is what we expected.
That move assignment happened
when I copied that object out.
Now it says enter the three
stooges names separated by a space.
Well, let's just give
them different names.
Let's say it's frank, Jim and Joe.
So you can see three
move assignments there.
And it says the three stooges
are Frank, Jim and Joe.
So there you go.
We've overloaded the insertion and
the extraction operators to work with
our classes, and it really feels like
it's part of the type system now.
All right, so that's
it for this section.
The next part is the challenge
exercise, so I'll see you there.